Late in the night he looked over at Mildred. 
She was awake. There was a tiny dance of melody in the air, 
her Seashell was tamped in her ear again and she was listening to far people
in far places, her eyes wide and staring at the fathoms of blackness above 
her in the ceiling. Wasn't there an old joke about the wife who talked so much 
on the telephone that her desperate
husband ran out to the nearest store and telephoned her to ask what was for dinner?
"Don't get excited, I'm trying to think." She laughed an odd little laugh that 
went up and up. "Funny, how funny, not to remember where or when you met your 
husband or wife." He lay massaging his eyes, his brow, and the back of his neck, 
slowly. He held both hands over his eyes and applied a steady pressure there as if 
to crush memory into place. It was suddenly more important than 
any other thing in a life-time that he knew where he had met Mildred. 
And if it was not the three walls soon to be four walls and the dream 
complete, then it was the open car and Mildred driving 
a hundred miles an hour across town, he shouting at her and she 
shouting back and both trying to hear what was said, but hearing only 
the scream of the car. "At least keep it down to the minimum !" he yelled: 
"What?" she cried. "Keep it down to fifty-five, 
the minimum! " he shouted. "The what?" she shrieked. "Speed!" he shouted. 
And she pushed it up to one hundred and five miles an hour and tore the breath from his mouth.
"It's not just the woman that died," said Montag. "Last night I thought 
about all the kerosene I've used in the past ten years. And I thought 
about books. And for the first time I realized 
that a man was behind each one of the books. A man had to think them up. 
A man had to take a long time to put them down on paper. 
And I'd never even thought that thought before." He got out of bed. 
"It took some man a lifetime maybe to put some of his thoughts down, 
looking around at the world and life, and then I came along in two minutes 
and boom! it's all over." "Classics cut to fit fifteen-minute radio shows, 
then cut again to fill a two-minute book column, winding up at last as a 
ten- or twelve-line dictionary resume. I exaggerate, of course. 
The dictionaries were for reference. But many were those whose sole knowledge 
of Hamlet (you know the title certainly, Montag; it is probably only a faint 
rumour of a title to you, Mrs. Montag) whose sole knowledge, as I say, of Hamlet 
was a one-page digest in a book that claimed: 'now at least you can read all the classics; 
keep up with your neighbours.' Do you see? Out of the nursery 
into the college and back to the nursery; there's your intellectual 
pattern for the past five centuries or more."
Mildred smoothed the bedclothes. Montag felt his heart jump and jump 
again as she patted his pillow. Right now she was pulling at his shoulder to try to 
get him to move so she could take the pillow 
out and fix it nicely and put it back. And perhaps cry out and stare or simply 
reach down her hand and say, "What's this?" and hold up the hidden book with touching innocence. 
"School is shortened, discipline relaxed, philosophies, histories, languages dropped, 
English and spelling gradually neglected, finally almost completely ignored. Life is immediate, 
the job counts, pleasure lies all about after work. Why learn anything save pressing buttons, pulling switches, fitting nuts?"
"Now let's take up the minorities in our civilization, shall we? Bigger the population, 
the more minorities. Don't step on the toes of the dog? lovers, the cat? lovers, doctors, 
lawyers, merchants,  chiefs, Mormons, Baptists, Unitarians, second generation Chinese, Swedes, 
Italians, Germans, Texans, Brooklynites, Irishmen, people from Oregon or Mexico. The people in this 
book, this play, this TV serial are not meant to represent any actual painters, 
cartographers, mechanics anywhere. The bigger your market, Montag, the less you handle 
controversy, remember that! All the minor minor minorities with their navels 
to be kept clean. Authors, full of evil thoughts, lock up your typewriters. They did. 
Magazines became a nice blend of vanilla tapioca. Books, so the damned snobbish 
critics said, were dishwater. No wonder books stopped selling, the critics said. 
But the public, knowing what it wanted, spinning happily, let the comic books survive. 
And the three-dimensional sex magazines, of course.
